README.md, before:

# Diego Pacheco's Software Architecture Library

<img src="cover.png" width="400">

This repository contains a curated collection of concepts, guidance about Software Architecture by Diego Pacheco.

Site: [https://diegopacheco.github.io/diegopacheco-architecture-library/](https://diegopacheco.github.io/diegopacheco-architecture-library/)

## Installing mdBook

Install mdBook using cargo:
```bash
cargo install mdbook
```

## Building the Book

This repository uses mdBook to generate a browsable book format.

Build the book:
```bash
mdbook build
```

Serve the book locally:
```bash
mdbook serve
```

Or use the convenience script:
```bash
./run.sh
```

The generated book will be in the `book/` directory.

## Versioning

The book version is displayed in the footer of each page. Current version is stored in the `VERSION` file.

To bump the version:
```bash
./bump-version.sh 1.1.0
```

This will update both the `VERSION` file and `theme/version.js`.

## Table of Contents

0. Chapter 0 - Zero
- [Why](src/zero/WHY.md) - Doing what's right
- [Rationale](src/zero/RATIONALE.md) - The reasoning behind this book

1. Chapter 1 - Philosophy:
- [Why](src/philosofy/WHY.md)
- [Crystal Ball](src/philosofy/CRYSTAL_BALL.md) - Think about future changes
- [Defensive Programming](src/philosofy/DEFENSIVE.md) - Anticipating and handling errors
- [Doing Hard Things](src/philosofy/DOING_HARD_THINGS.md) - Tackling complex problems head-on
- [Frontend vs Backend](src/philosofy/FRONTEND_VS_BACKEND.md) - Design philosophy differences
- [Open Source First](src/philosofy/OSS.md) - Favor open source solutions always
- [Service Orientation](src/philosofy/SO.md) - Services as first-class citizens
- [Protect Your Time](src/philosofy/PROTECT_YOUR_TIME.md) - Strategies for architects to safeguard time for deep work

2. Chapter 2 - Anti-Patterns:
- [Why](src/anti-patterns/WHY.md)
- [Tech Debt Plague](src/anti-patterns/TECH_DEBT_PLAGUE.md) - Fighting technical debt constantly
- [Ignore Culture](src/anti-patterns/IGNORE_CULTURE.md) - Addressing ignored problems proactively
- [Stagnation](src/anti-patterns/STAGNATION.md) - Constant learning to avoid stagnation
- [Requirements](src/anti-patterns/REQUIREMENTS.md) - Challenging and validating decisions


3. Chapter 3 - Dilemmas:
- [Why](src/dilemmas/WHY.md)
- [Discovery vs Delivery](src/dilemmas/DISCOVERY_VS_DELIVERY.md) - Balancing exploration and execution
- [Move Fast vs Do it Right](src/dilemmas/MOVE_FAST_VS_DO_IT_RIGHT.md) - Speed vs Quality
- [Build vs Buy](src/dilemmas/BUILD_VS_BUY.md) - When to build in-house vs buy and integrate
- [Decide or Wait](src/dilemmas/DECIDE_OR_WAIT.md) - Making timely decisions vs delaying for more info

4. Chapter 4 - Properties:
- [Why](src/properties/WHY.md)
- [Anti-Fragility](src/properties/ANTI-FRAGILITY.md) - Systems Thriving on Failure
- [State of the Art](src/properties/STATE-OF-THE-ART.md) -
Choosing the best and latest solutions
- [Scalability](src/properties/SCALABILITY.md) - Designing for growth and load
- [Observability](src/properties/OBSERVABLE.md) - Monitoring and understanding system behavior
- [Stability](src/properties/STABILITY.md) - Ensuring stable daily practices.
- [Secure](src/properties/SECURE.md) - Embedding security in architecture


5. Chapter 5 - Practices:
- [Why](src/pratices/WHY.md)
- [Attention to Detail](src/pratices/ATTENTION_TO_DETAIL.md) - Architect with precision and care
- [Architecture Review](src/pratices/ARCH_REVIEW.md) - Documenting architecture for communication and improvements
- [Design First](src/pratices/DESIGN_FIRST.md) - Think first, act later
- [Ownership](src/pratices/OWNERSHIP.md) - Extreme ownership and proactive behavior for architects
- [Reading Code](src/pratices/READING_CODE.md) - Importance of reading code as an architect
- [Monthly Review](src/pratices/MONTHLY_REVIEW.md) - See the whole picture.
- [Working on Trenches](src/pratices/WORKING_ON_TRENCHES.md) - Hands-on, front-line work with the team.

6. Chapter 6 - Concepts:
- [Why](src/concepts/WHY.md)
- [ACID](src/concepts/ACID.md) - Relational database transaction properties
- [Authentication & Authorization](src/concepts/AUTHENT.md) - Identity verification and access control
- [BASE](src/concepts/BASE.md) - NoSQL consistency model
- [Idempotency](src/concepts/IDEMPOTENCY.md) - Safe operation repetition
- [Optimistic vs Pessimistic Locking](src/concepts/OPLOCKING.md) - Concurrency control strategies
- [Partition](src/concepts/PARTITION.md) - Data distribution strategies
- [Schema Evolution](src/concepts/SCHEMA_EVOLUTION.md) - Forward/backward compatibility for APIs
- [Source of Truth](src/concepts/SOURCE_OF_TRUTH.md) - Authoritative data source
- [Stateless vs Stateful Services](src/concepts/STATELESS_VS_STATEFULL_SVC.md) - Service state management

7. Chapter 7 - Patterns:
- [Why](src/patterns/WHY.md)
- [API Gateway](src/patterns/API_GATEWAY.md) - Single entry point for microservices
- [BFF Pattern](src/patterns/BFF_PATTERN.md) - Backend for Frontend pattern
- [Cache](src/patterns/CACHE.md) - Data storage for faster access
- [Connection Pool](src/patterns/CONNECTION_POOL.md) - Database connection reuse
- [Feature Flags](src/patterns/FEATURE_FLAGS.md) - Runtime configuration and gradual rollouts
- [Load Balancer](src/patterns/LB.md) - Traffic distribution across servers
- [Message Patterns](src/patterns/MESSAGE_PATTERNS.md) - Publish/Subscribe, Point-to-Point messaging
- [Message Id](src/patterns/MESSAGE_ID.md) - Unique identifier for tracing requests
- [Pagination](src/patterns/PAGINATION.md) - Breaking large datasets into pages
- [Queue](src/patterns/QUEUE.md) - Asynchronous message processing
- [Retry](src/patterns/RETRY.md) - Handling transient failures with retry strategies
- [Web Hook](src/patterns/WEB_HOOK.md) - Event-driven HTTP callbacks

8. Chapter 8 - Tools:

- [Why](src/tools/WHY.md)
- [Diagraming Tools](src/tools/DIAGRAMING.md) - Visualizing architecture with diagrams
- [Writing Tools](src/tools/WRITING.md) - Documenting architecture effectively
- [Thinking Tools](src/tools/THINKING.md) - Tools for structured thinking and exploration.

9. Chapter 9 - Epilogue
- [Epilogue](src/epilogue/IN_THE_END.md) - Final thoughts and next steps
- [Resources](src/epilogue/RESOURCES.md) - Recommended books and learning materials
- [Changelog](src/CHANGELOG.md) - Updates and revisions to the book
- [References](src/epilogue/REFERENCES.md) - External blog posts, articles, and technical documentation
- [Glossary](src/epilogue/GLOSSARY.md) - Definitions of key terms used in the book
- [Index](src/epilogue/INDEX.md) - Complete index of topics covered in the book

Commit message:

added content to: - [How I Wrote The Book](epilogue/HOW_I_WROTE_THE_BOOK.md) - Behind the scenes of the book's creation

README.md, after:

# Diego Pacheco's Software Architecture Library

<img src="cover.png" width="400">

This repository contains a curated collection of concepts, guidance about Software Architecture by Diego Pacheco.

Site: [https://diegopacheco.github.io/diegopacheco-architecture-library/](https://diegopacheco.github.io/diegopacheco-architecture-library/)

## Installing mdBook

Install mdBook using cargo:
```bash
cargo install mdbook
```

## Building the Book

This repository uses mdBook to generate a browsable book format.

Build the book:
```bash
mdbook build
```

Serve the book locally:
```bash
mdbook serve
```

Or use the convenience script:
```bash
./run.sh
```

The generated book will be in the `book/` directory.

## Versioning

The book version is displayed in the footer of each page. Current version is stored in the `VERSION` file.

To bump the version:
```bash
./bump-version.sh 1.1.0
```

This will update both the `VERSION` file and `theme/version.js`.

## Table of Contents

0. Chapter 0 - Zero
- [Why](src/zero/WHY.md) - Doing what's right
- [Rationale](src/zero/RATIONALE.md) - The reasoning behind this book

1. Chapter 1 - Philosophy:
- [Why](src/philosofy/WHY.md)
- [Crystal Ball](src/philosofy/CRYSTAL_BALL.md) - Think about future changes
- [Defensive Programming](src/philosofy/DEFENSIVE.md) - Anticipating and handling errors
- [Doing Hard Things](src/philosofy/DOING_HARD_THINGS.md) - Tackling complex problems head-on
- [Frontend vs Backend](src/philosofy/FRONTEND_VS_BACKEND.md) - Design philosophy differences
- [Open Source First](src/philosofy/OSS.md) - Favor open source solutions always
- [Service Orientation](src/philosofy/SO.md) - Services as first-class citizens
- [Protect Your Time](src/philosofy/PROTECT_YOUR_TIME.md) - Strategies for architects to safeguard time for deep work

2. Chapter 2 - Anti-Patterns:
- [Why](src/anti-patterns/WHY.md)
- [Tech Debt Plague](src/anti-patterns/TECH_DEBT_PLAGUE.md) - Fighting technical debt constantly
- [Ignore Culture](src/anti-patterns/IGNORE_CULTURE.md) - Addressing ignored problems proactively
- [Stagnation](src/anti-patterns/STAGNATION.md) - Constant learning to avoid stagnation
- [Requirements](src/anti-patterns/REQUIREMENTS.md) - Challenging and validating decisions


3. Chapter 3 - Dilemmas:
- [Why](src/dilemmas/WHY.md)
- [Discovery vs Delivery](src/dilemmas/DISCOVERY_VS_DELIVERY.md) - Balancing exploration and execution
- [Move Fast vs Do it Right](src/dilemmas/MOVE_FAST_VS_DO_IT_RIGHT.md) - Speed vs Quality
- [Build vs Buy](src/dilemmas/BUILD_VS_BUY.md) - When to build in-house vs buy and integrate
- [Decide or Wait](src/dilemmas/DECIDE_OR_WAIT.md) - Making timely decisions vs delaying for more info

4. Chapter 4 - Properties:
- [Why](src/properties/WHY.md)
- [Anti-Fragility](src/properties/ANTI-FRAGILITY.md) - Systems Thriving on Failure
- [State of the Art](src/properties/STATE-OF-THE-ART.md) -
Choosing the best and latest solutions
- [Scalability](src/properties/SCALABILITY.md) - Designing for growth and load
- [Observability](src/properties/OBSERVABLE.md) - Monitoring and understanding system behavior
- [Stability](src/properties/STABILITY.md) - Ensuring stable daily practices.
- [Secure](src/properties/SECURE.md) - Embedding security in architecture


5. Chapter 5 - Practices:
- [Why](src/pratices/WHY.md)
- [Attention to Detail](src/pratices/ATTENTION_TO_DETAIL.md) - Architect with precision and care
- [Architecture Review](src/pratices/ARCH_REVIEW.md) - Documenting architecture for communication and improvements
- [Design First](src/pratices/DESIGN_FIRST.md) - Think first, act later
- [Ownership](src/pratices/OWNERSHIP.md) - Extreme ownership and proactive behavior for architects
- [Reading Code](src/pratices/READING_CODE.md) - Importance of reading code as an architect
- [Monthly Review](src/pratices/MONTHLY_REVIEW.md) - See the whole picture.
- [Working on Trenches](src/pratices/WORKING_ON_TRENCHES.md) - Hands-on, front-line work with the team.

6. Chapter 6 - Concepts:
- [Why](src/concepts/WHY.md)
- [ACID](src/concepts/ACID.md) - Relational database transaction properties
- [Authentication & Authorization](src/concepts/AUTHENT.md) - Identity verification and access control
- [BASE](src/concepts/BASE.md) - NoSQL consistency model
- [Idempotency](src/concepts/IDEMPOTENCY.md) - Safe operation repetition
- [Optimistic vs Pessimistic Locking](src/concepts/OPLOCKING.md) - Concurrency control strategies
- [Partition](src/concepts/PARTITION.md) - Data distribution strategies
- [Schema Evolution](src/concepts/SCHEMA_EVOLUTION.md) - Forward/backward compatibility for APIs
- [Source of Truth](src/concepts/SOURCE_OF_TRUTH.md) - Authoritative data source
- [Stateless vs Stateful Services](src/concepts/STATELESS_VS_STATEFULL_SVC.md) - Service state management

7. Chapter 7 - Patterns:
- [Why](src/patterns/WHY.md)
- [API Gateway](src/patterns/API_GATEWAY.md) - Single entry point for microservices
- [BFF Pattern](src/patterns/BFF_PATTERN.md) - Backend for Frontend pattern
- [Cache](src/patterns/CACHE.md) - Data storage for faster access
- [Connection Pool](src/patterns/CONNECTION_POOL.md) - Database connection reuse
- [Feature Flags](src/patterns/FEATURE_FLAGS.md) - Runtime configuration and gradual rollouts
- [Load Balancer](src/patterns/LB.md) - Traffic distribution across servers
- [Message Patterns](src/patterns/MESSAGE_PATTERNS.md) - Publish/Subscribe, Point-to-Point messaging
- [Message Id](src/patterns/MESSAGE_ID.md) - Unique identifier for tracing requests
- [Pagination](src/patterns/PAGINATION.md) - Breaking large datasets into pages
- [Queue](src/patterns/QUEUE.md) - Asynchronous message processing
- [Retry](src/patterns/RETRY.md) - Handling transient failures with retry strategies
- [Web Hook](src/patterns/WEB_HOOK.md) - Event-driven HTTP callbacks

8. Chapter 8 - Tools:

- [Why](src/tools/WHY.md)
- [Diagraming Tools](src/tools/DIAGRAMING.md) - Visualizing architecture with diagrams
- [Writing Tools](src/tools/WRITING.md) - Documenting architecture effectively
- [Thinking Tools](src/tools/THINKING.md) - Tools for structured thinking and exploration.

9. Chapter 9 - Epilogue
- [Epilogue](src/epilogue/IN_THE_END.md) - Final thoughts and next steps
- [Resources](src/epilogue/RESOURCES.md) - Recommended books and learning materials
- [How I Wrote The Book](src/epilogue/HOW_I_WROTE_THE_BOOK.md) - Behind the scenes of the book's creation
- [Changelog](src/CHANGELOG.md) - Updates and revisions to the book
- [References](src/epilogue/REFERENCES.md) - External blog posts, articles, and technical documentation
- [Glossary](src/epilogue/GLOSSARY.md) - Definitions of key terms used in the book
- [Index](src/epilogue/INDEX.md) - Complete index of topics covered in the book
