src/SUMMARY.md, before:

# Summary

[Introduction](introduction.md)

# 0. Chapter 0 - Zero
- [Why](zero/WHY.md) - Doing what's right
- [Rationale](zero/RATIONALE.md) - The reasoning behind this book

# 1. Chapter 1 - Philosophy

- [Why](philosofy/WHY.md)
- [Crystal Ball](philosofy/CRYSTAL_BALL.md)
- [Defensive Programming](philosofy/DEFENSIVE.md)
- [Doing Hard Things](philosofy/DOING_HARD_THINGS.md)
- [Frontend vs Backend](philosofy/FRONTEND_VS_BACKEND.md)
- [Open Source First](philosofy/OSS.md)
- [Service Orientation](philosofy/SO.md)
- [Protect Your Time](philosofy/PROTECT_YOUR_TIME.md)

# 2. Chapter 2 - Anti-Patterns

- [Why](anti-patterns/WHY.md)
- [Tech Debt Plague](anti-patterns/TECH_DEBT_PLAGUE.md) - Fighting technical debt constantly
- [Ignore Culture](anti-patterns/IGNORE_CULTURE.md) - Addressing ignored problems proactively
- [Stagnation](anti-patterns/STAGNATION.md) - Constant learning to avoid stagnation
- [Requirements](anti-patterns/REQUIREMENTS.md) - Challenging and validating decisions

# 3. Chapter 3 - Dilemmas
- [Why](dilemmas/WHY.md)
- [Discovery vs Delivery](dilemmas/DISCOVERY_VS_DELIVERY.md) - Balancing exploration and execution
- [Move Fast vs Do it Right](dilemmas/MOVE_FAST_VS_DO_IT_RIGHT.md) - Speed vs Quality
- [Build vs Buy](dilemmas/BUILD_VS_BUY.md) - When to build in-house vs buy and integrate
- [Decide or Wait](dilemmas/DECIDE_OR_WAIT.md) - Making timely decisions vs delaying for more info

# 4. Chapter 4 - Properties

- [Why](properties/WHY.md)
- [Anti-Fragility](properties/ANTI-FRAGILITY.md) - Systems Thriving on Failure
- [State of the Art](properties/STATE-OF-THE-ART.md) -
Choosing the best and latest solutions
- [Scalability](properties/SCALABILITY.md) - Designing for growth and load
- [Observability](properties/OBSERVABLE.md) - Monitoring and understanding system behavior
- [Stability](properties/STABILITY.md) - Ensuring stable daily practices.
- [Secure](properties/SECURE.md) - Embedding security in architecture

# 5. Chapter 5 - Practices

- [Why](pratices/WHY.md)
- [Attention to Detail](pratices/ATTENTION_TO_DETAIL.md)
- [Architecture Review](pratices/ARCH_REVIEW.md)
- [Design First](pratices/DESIGN_FIRST.md)
- [Ownership](pratices/OWNERSHIP.md)
- [Reading Code](pratices/READING_CODE.md)
- [Monthly Review](pratices/MONTHLY_REVIEW.md)
- [Working on Trenches](pratices/WORKING_ON_TRENCHES.md)

# 6. Chapter 6 - Concepts

- [Why](concepts/WHY.md)
- [ACID](concepts/ACID.md)
- [Authentication & Authorization](concepts/AUTHENT.md)
- [BASE](concepts/BASE.md)
- [Idempotency](concepts/IDEMPOTENCY.md)
- [Optimistic vs Pessimistic Locking](concepts/OPLOCKING.md)
- [Partition](concepts/PARTITION.md)
- [Schema Evolution](concepts/SCHEMA_EVOLUTION.md)
- [Source of Truth](concepts/SOURCE_OF_TRUTH.md)
- [Stateless vs Stateful Services](concepts/STATELESS_VS_STATEFULL_SVC.md)

# 7. Chapter 7 - Patterns

- [Why](patterns/WHY.md)
- [API Gateway](patterns/API_GATEWAY.md)
- [BFF Pattern](patterns/BFF_PATTERN.md)
- [Cache](patterns/CACHE.md)
- [Connection Pool](patterns/CONNECTION_POOL.md)
- [Feature Flags](patterns/FEATURE_FLAGS.md)
- [Load Balancer](patterns/LB.md)
- [Message Patterns](patterns/MESSAGE_PATTERNS.md)
- [Message Id](patterns/MESSAGE_ID.md)
- [Pagination](patterns/PAGINATION.md)
- [Queue](patterns/QUEUE.md)
- [Retry](patterns/RETRY.md)
- [Web Hook](patterns/WEB_HOOK.md)

# 8. Chapter 8 - Tools

- [Why](tools/WHY.md)
- [Diagraming Tools](tools/DIAGRAMING.md) - Visualizing architecture with diagrams
- [Writing Tools](tools/WRITING.md) - Documenting architecture effectively
- [Thinking Tools](tools/THINKING.md) - Tools for structured thinking and exploration.

# 9. Chapter 9 - Epilogue
- [Epilogue](epilogue/IN_THE_END.md) - Final thoughts and next steps
- [Resources](epilogue/RESOURCES.md) - Recommended books and learning materials
- [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md) - Updates and revisions to the book
- [References](epilogue/REFERENCES.md) - External blog posts, articles, and technical documentation
- [Glossary](epilogue/GLOSSARY.md) - Definitions of key terms used in the book
- [Index](epilogue/INDEX.md) - Complete index of topics covered in the book

Commit message:

added content to: - [How I Wrote The Book](epilogue/HOW_I_WROTE_THE_BOOK.md) - Behind the scenes of the book's creation

src/SUMMARY.md, after:

# Summary

[Introduction](introduction.md)

# 0. Chapter 0 - Zero
- [Why](zero/WHY.md) - Doing what's right
- [Rationale](zero/RATIONALE.md) - The reasoning behind this book

# 1. Chapter 1 - Philosophy

- [Why](philosofy/WHY.md)
- [Crystal Ball](philosofy/CRYSTAL_BALL.md)
- [Defensive Programming](philosofy/DEFENSIVE.md)
- [Doing Hard Things](philosofy/DOING_HARD_THINGS.md)
- [Frontend vs Backend](philosofy/FRONTEND_VS_BACKEND.md)
- [Open Source First](philosofy/OSS.md)
- [Service Orientation](philosofy/SO.md)
- [Protect Your Time](philosofy/PROTECT_YOUR_TIME.md)

# 2. Chapter 2 - Anti-Patterns

- [Why](anti-patterns/WHY.md)
- [Tech Debt Plague](anti-patterns/TECH_DEBT_PLAGUE.md) - Fighting technical debt constantly
- [Ignore Culture](anti-patterns/IGNORE_CULTURE.md) - Addressing ignored problems proactively
- [Stagnation](anti-patterns/STAGNATION.md) - Constant learning to avoid stagnation
- [Requirements](anti-patterns/REQUIREMENTS.md) - Challenging and validating decisions

# 3. Chapter 3 - Dilemmas
- [Why](dilemmas/WHY.md)
- [Discovery vs Delivery](dilemmas/DISCOVERY_VS_DELIVERY.md) - Balancing exploration and execution
- [Move Fast vs Do it Right](dilemmas/MOVE_FAST_VS_DO_IT_RIGHT.md) - Speed vs Quality
- [Build vs Buy](dilemmas/BUILD_VS_BUY.md) - When to build in-house vs buy and integrate
- [Decide or Wait](dilemmas/DECIDE_OR_WAIT.md) - Making timely decisions vs delaying for more info

# 4. Chapter 4 - Properties

- [Why](properties/WHY.md)
- [Anti-Fragility](properties/ANTI-FRAGILITY.md) - Systems Thriving on Failure
- [State of the Art](properties/STATE-OF-THE-ART.md) -
Choosing the best and latest solutions
- [Scalability](properties/SCALABILITY.md) - Designing for growth and load
- [Observability](properties/OBSERVABLE.md) - Monitoring and understanding system behavior
- [Stability](properties/STABILITY.md) - Ensuring stable daily practices.
- [Secure](properties/SECURE.md) - Embedding security in architecture

# 5. Chapter 5 - Practices

- [Why](pratices/WHY.md)
- [Attention to Detail](pratices/ATTENTION_TO_DETAIL.md)
- [Architecture Review](pratices/ARCH_REVIEW.md)
- [Design First](pratices/DESIGN_FIRST.md)
- [Ownership](pratices/OWNERSHIP.md)
- [Reading Code](pratices/READING_CODE.md)
- [Monthly Review](pratices/MONTHLY_REVIEW.md)
- [Working on Trenches](pratices/WORKING_ON_TRENCHES.md)

# 6. Chapter 6 - Concepts

- [Why](concepts/WHY.md)
- [ACID](concepts/ACID.md)
- [Authentication & Authorization](concepts/AUTHENT.md)
- [BASE](concepts/BASE.md)
- [Idempotency](concepts/IDEMPOTENCY.md)
- [Optimistic vs Pessimistic Locking](concepts/OPLOCKING.md)
- [Partition](concepts/PARTITION.md)
- [Schema Evolution](concepts/SCHEMA_EVOLUTION.md)
- [Source of Truth](concepts/SOURCE_OF_TRUTH.md)
- [Stateless vs Stateful Services](concepts/STATELESS_VS_STATEFULL_SVC.md)

# 7. Chapter 7 - Patterns

- [Why](patterns/WHY.md)
- [API Gateway](patterns/API_GATEWAY.md)
- [BFF Pattern](patterns/BFF_PATTERN.md)
- [Cache](patterns/CACHE.md)
- [Connection Pool](patterns/CONNECTION_POOL.md)
- [Feature Flags](patterns/FEATURE_FLAGS.md)
- [Load Balancer](patterns/LB.md)
- [Message Patterns](patterns/MESSAGE_PATTERNS.md)
- [Message Id](patterns/MESSAGE_ID.md)
- [Pagination](patterns/PAGINATION.md)
- [Queue](patterns/QUEUE.md)
- [Retry](patterns/RETRY.md)
- [Web Hook](patterns/WEB_HOOK.md)

# 8. Chapter 8 - Tools

- [Why](tools/WHY.md)
- [Diagraming Tools](tools/DIAGRAMING.md) - Visualizing architecture with diagrams
- [Writing Tools](tools/WRITING.md) - Documenting architecture effectively
- [Thinking Tools](tools/THINKING.md) - Tools for structured thinking and exploration.

# 9. Chapter 9 - Epilogue
- [Epilogue](epilogue/IN_THE_END.md) - Final thoughts and next steps
- [Resources](epilogue/RESOURCES.md) - Recommended books and learning materials
- [How I Wrote The Book](epilogue/HOW_I_WROTE_THE_BOOK.md) - Behind the scenes of the book's creation
- [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md) - Updates and revisions to the book
- [References](epilogue/REFERENCES.md) - External blog posts, articles, and technical documentation
- [Glossary](epilogue/GLOSSARY.md) - Definitions of key terms used in the book
- [Index](epilogue/INDEX.md) - Complete index of topics covered in the book
